The biomedical studies concentration is arranged by individual contract
through the program director, and consists of both required courses and a
career portfolio. Declaring the concentration at the Registrar's Office is not
sufficient; students must also file a contract with the program director.
Students may take required courses through their last semester, but the
completed career portfolio is due by May 1 of the senior year.

##  Required Courses

Course selection and justification should involve consultation with the
program director upon initiation of the concentration. A requirement of the
career portfolio involves written explanations of relevance and usefulness for
all four course selections.

  1. Foundation course in human biology. This course could be either  BIO 123  or  BIO 243  taken here at St. Olaf, or it could be a human biology course transferred from another institution if approved by the program director. 
  2. Practical application course. This course must be outside of the student's major. It is any course in which the student practices something practical or logistical relating to the health career of interest. For example, many pre-dental students take a course in studio art to practice working with their hands. As another example, many pre-medical students take a health economics course to better understand the context of health care. 
  3. Ethical considerations course. This is requirement is fulfilled through the EIN general education requirement. Several of the EIN courses focus on health related topics, such as  PHIL 250 Biomedical Ethics  and  PHIL 259 Global Health Ethics  . However, students can count any EIN designated course for this requirement, because the practice of ethical considerations is transferable to health care no matter what the original context in which it was learned. 
  4. Level II or III elective course. This course must be outside of the student's major. It is any 200- or 300-level course that contributes to the student's career preparation. For example, many students preparing for graduate programs in occupational therapy take a 200-level psychology course, and many students interested in health administration take a course that focuses on socioeconomic or cultural diversity. 

##  Career Portfolio

**Experiential Learning**

Students must participate in at least one significant experience that provides
immersion in the biomedical field(s) being considered. This requirement may be
met by an appropriate off-campus course, an academic internship for credit, or
an experience (paid or unpaid) that is not for credit. In order to select the
best option(s) for this requirement, students should consult with the program
director upon initiation of the concentration.

**Career Research Activities**

Please note that the biomedical studies concentration also consists of non-
course requirements, including participation in some ( [ Piper Center for
Vocation and Career) ](http://wp.stolaf.edu/pipercenter/) workshops,
attendance at career-related events, preparation of a resume, interviews with
professionals, and career research. Details are available at the [ biomedical
studies requirements ](http://wp.stolaf.edu/biomed/biomedical-studies-
concentration-requirements/) web page.

**Senior Capstone**

Students must write a one-page review of how their work in the biomedical
studies concentration has helped formulate next steps for after graduation
from St. Olaf College. This review must include future plans and be
accompanied by a document that supports those next steps. More information is
available at the biomedical studies website at: [ http://wp.stolaf.edu/biomed/
](http://wp.stolaf.edu/biomed/) .

